Bhaja Govindam - by Adi SankaracharyaBhajagovindam bhajagovindamGovindam bhajamuudhamate .Sampraapte sannihite kaale Nahi nahi rakshati dukr^ijnkarane Worship Govinda, Worship Govinda, Worship Govinda. Oh fool ! Rules of Grammar will not save you at the time of your death. Mudha jahiihi dhanaagamatr^ishhnaam Kuru sadbuddhim manasi vitr^ishhnaam.h .Yallabhase nijakarmopaattam Vittam tena vinodaya chittam.h Oh fool ! Give up your thirst to amass wealth, devote your mind to thoughts to the Real. Be content with what comes through actions already performed in the past. Yaavadvittopaarjana saktah Staavannija parivaaro raktah .Pashchaajjiivati jarjara dehe Vaartaam ko.api na pr^ichchhati gehe So long as a man is fit and able to support his family, see the affection all those around him show. But no one at home cares to even have a word with him when his body totters due to old age. Maa kuru dhana jana yauvana garvam Harati nimeshhaatkaalah sarvam.h .Maayaamayamidamakhilam hitvaa Brahmapadam tvam pravisha viditvaa Do not boast of wealth, friends, and youth. Each one of these is destroyed within a minute. Free yourself from the illusion of the world of Maya and attain the timeless Truth. Sura ma.ndira taru muula nivaasah Shayyaa bhuutala majinam vaasah .Sarva parigraha bhoga tyaagah Kasya sukham na karoti viraagah Take your residence in a temple or below a tree, wear the deerskin for the dress, and sleep with mother earth as your bed. Give up all attachments and renounce all comforts. Blessed with such vairagya(dispassion), could any fail to be content? Bhagavad.h giitaa kijnchidadhiitaa Gangaa jalalava kanikaapiitaa .Sakridapi yena muraari samarchaa Kriyate tasya yamena na charchaa Let a man read but a little from Gita(Bhagavad Gita), drink just a drop of water from the Ganges, worship Murari (govinda) just once. He then will have no altercation with Yama. Punarapi jananam punarapi maranam Punarapi jananii jathare shayanam.h .Iha samsaare bahudustaare Kripayaa.apaare paahi muraare Born again, death again, birth again to stay in the mother's womb! It is indeed hard to cross this boundless ocean of samsara. Oh Murari ! Redeem me through Thy mercy. Geyam giitaa naama sahasram Dhyeyam shriipati ruupamajasram.h .Neyam sajjana sange chittam Deyam diinajanaaya cha vittam.h Regularly recite from the Gita, meditate on Vishnu in your heart, and chant His thousand glories. Take delight to be with the noble and the holy. Distribute your wealth in charity to the poor and the needy. Arthamanartham bhaavaya nityam Naastitatah sukhaleshah satyam.h .Putraadapi dhana bhaajaam bhiitih Sarvatraishhaa vihiaa riitih Wealth is not welfare; truly there is no joy in it. Reflect thus at all times. A rich man fears even his own son. This is the way of wealth everywhere. Gurucharanaambuja nirbhara bhakatah Samsaaraadachiraadbhava muktah .Sendriyamaanasa niyamaadevam Drakshyasi nija hridayastham devam.h Oh devotee of the lotus feet of the Guru! May thou be soon free from Samsara. Through disciplined senses and controlled mind, thou shalt come to experience the Indwelling Lord of your heart!Composer: Adi SankaracharyaLanguage: Sanskrit About: Bhaja Govindam - from the immortal composition of Adi Sankaracharya, 10 verses of this hymn divinely rendered by MS Subbulakshmi.It is said that Adi Shankaracharya, accompanied by his disciples, was walking along a street in Varanasi one day when he came across an aged scholar teaching the rules of Sanskrit grammar to his students by rote. Taking pity on him, Adi Shankaracharya went up to the scholar and advised him not to waste his time on grammar at his age but to turn his mind to God in worship and adoration, which became the origin for this hymn.